Okay,
guys,
we're progressing nicely now because I can't recall what this code look like.
Originally,
what I'm gonna do is re recalled that macro just quickly so we can at least get a view of
what it used to look like.
So I'm just gonna hit the record macro.
Choose macro to are not gonna bother with anything else.
Select all the cells,
go to home,
go to fill new film on click.
I think I chose that Self ons stop.
Okay,
so we have our code and window here,
but we can't see our project,
and you can see that it doesn't appear in this one.
So long and do temporarily is go to view.
I am going to go to Project Explorer,
and you can see that that we have module to I'm just gonna double click laughs bomb,
bomb,
and they go macro to that is what the code looked like.
Okay,
so I just complete that from next.
I'm not really interested in keeping it just for reference.
I'm gonna pay step below,
so I'm just going to say,
uh,
this is what it started like means nothing.
We're gonna delete it in a minute.
anyway.
But just so you can see,
this is where we started.
So at the moonless just get rid of these remarks.
So at the moment,
on the clothes,
that right.
Okay,
so at the moment at the recorded macro has the sub in the end sub which absolutely Chris
Cole,
there's nothing you can do about that.
On we have 1234567 lines of executed will code.
And we did a bit of stream lining up here with what we learned that with what we learned to
the top things that didn't actually have any effect.
And we just deleted them out.
Eso No,
we're down from seven infection.
That bacon note that wanted to 34567 So I'm just gonna come in that so he at the recorded
macro has seven lines of code on at the moment,
we may should bring it down to on 234 In fact,
I think we we did even more than that,
I think we Yeah,
we bought that down to one light of code.
I think I didn't say they're from Bom Bom Bom bom bom.
Delete the space.
Delete the end with?
Yeah,
I think that's what it looked like the end of the last lecture.
So we've come down from seven lines of code 2123 lines of code so instantly,
the code is going to be mawr than twice a faster the original recorded macro.
Now,
if we clocked these,
I I think the answer is there going to be in milliseconds,
But so here we have this,
currently sitting at three lines of code,
but we confer that,
rationalize this code and make it even more streamlined if we look at the end off this line
and the beginning of this line,
So let's just step through and understand what happens here.
So I'm just gonna press in this code.
I'm just gonna press f eight.
So we are on sub clear format in cells.
Select.
So the first line of code selected all the cells on the workbook select all their cells in
the sheet.
Okay,
The second line of code say's with that selection.
So whatever we have selected above,
what I want to work on is the interior property on off the interior property.
I want work on the pattern property and set that property to excel.
Non.
So what?
We hang sleep.
What?
We're actually doing these two things.
We are selecting the cells on Ben.
We're gonna act on that selection.
But what would happen if we deleted the select on just hit delete?
Andi kept Hissene delete eventually that will move up.
Andi just bought in cells dot selection dot interior pattern.
In fact,
I think we'll even go further than that.
I think we can just say cells.
So let's say cells,
which appears to select all of the cells dot interior Doc Patton equals X l numb.
I'm just gonna hit.
Stop.
I'm just gonna f eight through there.
I need to call.
Really?
Um,
first Don't know so we can see what it's doing.
Let's just play this one bump.
There you go.
So we have things.
So here,
one line of code as ultimate,
if I just step through that way too quickly,
color them in our right.
Okay,
so in this section,
I'm gonna hit F eight clear formatting cells.
That is all of the cells.
The interior off those cells,
the pattern of the interior of those cells Change to excel.
Mum on that notice what happens over here in the spreadsheet F eight.
Step through.
Bang,
they go.
Absolutely.
All the cells have been unhygienic than my final instruction range a 12 e one as
interesting Because of here we had range 016 near the reason for that.
Let me just screw over here is that this is emerged cell.
So it's actually merged across a to e.
But that's very useful,
cause that shows us how to highlight a range.
So let's make a note of that.
Highlights a range off cells.
They go now we're going to be very shortly creating our macro book.
Andi,
let me just have eight.
We're gonna be created our macro book and all these useful bits of code these things that
we learn,
and we're gonna stall them all there.
So you never have to work out how to do it again.
Because although you may be able to record a macro again in a year's time,
you're still gonna have to go through the process and look at it in.
Try and work out what it does.
So your macro book will become your Bible.
So you'll instantly be able to see exactly what each of the instructions does.
So let's give those a quick test.
This one coolers in Boom and they go.
We're calling in on this one,
which is now down to two lines of code so we can clear the former Wouldn't get rid of that
.
Uh,
and that pretty much We don't need to have two in there.
We will say what it does.
Clears the formatting on pull off the sounds in the sheet boom.
Okay,
so we actually originally in our recorded macro,
we had seven lines of code.
We had cells and select.
And then,
with that selection,
we worked on the interior property on off the interior properties.
We worked on the pattern.
Then we worked on Tintin Shade.
Then we worked on patent into in shade.
Then we finished with our end with and then we selected are start range.
But he had we brought it down from seven lines of code to two lines of code,
which no means when we execute that it's over three times fast.
That thin the recorded macro version.
Okay,
I shall see you in the next lecture.